Publishing Documentation
========================

Bibles received from the DBL are in USX format.  In that case, one should start with the step below marked Publisher.  Otherwise, they are
usually in USFM format.  And they need to be converted to USX using the following steps.

USFM Processing
---------------

The Bible in USFM format should be put into the directory 0othersources.  ParaText is used to convert the files to USX.
	
	Start ParaText
	File Menu -> New Project -> Edit Form
	Import Books -> Use File Menu to find directory
	Select all books of the Bible
	Create Version folder under DBL/1original
	Create USX_1 folder under DBL/1original/version
	Tools -> Advanced -> Export Project to USX
	Select correct USX_1 directory
	Click Export Button
	Check files into source code control

Directory: ShortSands/BibleApp/Publisher

ParaTextPostProcess
-------------------

The Publisher program was written to process files downloaded from the DBL.  When a USX file has been generated by ParaText from a USFM file, the
some post processing must be done on that data before it can be processed in Publisher.

	chmod -x VERSION/USX_1/*.usx
	./ParaTextPostProcessor.sh VERSION
	

Publisher
---------

Put the original USX_1 directory under source code control

The original USX file should be put into the DBL/1original directory, and then copied to the DBL/2current directory.  This extra step is provided
in case there is a need for some revision of the source files before processing.

Remove the executable privilege if needed.

This program reads the USX files in DBL/2current/VERSION/USX_1, and uses this to generate the Bible in the correct format for presentation in the
YourBible app.  It creates and populates the following tables.
1. chapters - contains one row for each chapter, which is used to display the text of the Bible.
2. verses - contains one row for each verse, which is used to display concordance search results.
3. concordance - contains one row for each word, which is used for search.
And there are some other tables used primarily for validation.

	./Publisher.sh VERSION


Validation Documentation
========================

Directory: ShortSands/BibleApp/Validation

The Validation Module is a series of program that must be run individually and their results inspected to insure there is no error.
There is much redundancy.  For example, if the ConcordanceValidation is successful is seems unlikely that the Bible Text contains an error,
but the other test will help to identify the location of the error should one occur.

XMLTokenizerTest
----------------

The XMLTokenizer is the lexical processor that processes Bible input.  If an error occurs here many other modules will have errors as well.
This program generates USX text files from input USX files and then does a diff to be certain the generated are identical to the starting ones.

	./XMLTokenizerTest.sh VERSION
	
	Any difference between input and generated will be displayed.
	
USXParser
---------

The USXParser is the xml parser processor that processes Bible input.  It was custom written, because other JS parsers that I found did not work
perfectly.  This program parses the USX into internal object that model USX and then converts them back to text files.  A perfect result will
show only the filename of each book.  When errors do occur verify whether they are occurring a book that is part of the canon or scripture.

	./USXParserTest.sh VERSION
	
	Any difference between input and generated USX files will be displayed.
	
HTMLValidator
-------------

The HTMLValidator reads the HTML that has been generated and uses it to generate USX code, which is compares with the starting USX.

	./HTMLValidator.sh VERSION
	
StyleUseValidator
-----------------

The StyleUseValidator compares the styles found in the version with those which have been written for in Codex.css and elsewhere.
It displays the styles, references or use, and counts for any styles that are not yet developed.

	./StyleUseValidator.sh VERSION
	
	Error results are displayed in stdout, and output/StyleUseUnfinished.txt
	
VersesValidator
---------------

The VersesValidator first extracts all of the verse.html into a single text.  This is used as a baseline of 
text for the Bible, because it is generated directly off the USX model objects that were created by the USXParser.  Next, this program reads chapters.html and extracts
the text from the HTML, and generates a single text file.

	./VersesValidator.sh VERSION
	
	Differences are displayed on the console.  The verses.html output is found at output/verses.txt, and the chapters.html output is found at
	output/chapters.txt.  They are compared using diff -w
	

ConcordanceValidator
--------------------

When the concordance was generated the refList column was populated with a list of all of the verse references for each word.  But a nearly duplicate column
was created called refPosition, which contains the references for each word including the position of each word in each verse.  
This program uses the refPosition information to create a text file version of the entire Bible.  This output is stored in output/generated.txt.  
The program then uses the text version of each verse stored in verses.html to compare with generated.txt character by character.  It outputs every 
character that is missing in generated.txt into the table valPunctuation.  At the end of the process, it displays a frequency count
of these characters in valPunctuation.  If all of the characters displayed are punctuation characters then the validation has passed.

	./ConcordanceValidator.sh VERSION
	
	Uses concordance.refPosition to create the output file output/generated.txt
	Compares generated.txt to table verses.txt and puts differences into the table valPunctuation.
	Displays a frequency count of the data in valPunctuation at end.
	
TableContentsValidator
----------------------

As an optimization, the tableContents table contains chapterRowId column that contains the integral
position of the first chapter of the book in the sequence of all chapters in the Bible.  The way it
is computed, the value could be incorrect if there were missing chapters.

	./TableContentsValidator.sh VERSION
	
	Displays the total number of computed chapters and the expected number.  It is an error if these
	numbers are different.
	
ValidationCleanup
-----------------

This program copies the database file from DBL/3prepared to DBL/4validated and removes most of the data that was only needed for validation.  This includes
the xml columns in the tables chapters and verses and the concordance.refPositions column.  It also drops the table valPunctuation.

	./ValidationCleanup.sh VERSION
	
ProductionUpload
----------------

The Publish.sh program stores Bible files in DBL/3prepared.  These validation programs operate on that copy of the database.  The ValidationCleanup script
copies the file to the DBL/4validated directory.  This script copies the databases into production by copying the files to DBL/5ready.
NOTE: This file does not perform the upload to AWS at this time.

	./ProductionUpload.sh VERSION
	
Version Documentation
=====================

Directory: ShortSands/BibleApp/Version

RunVersions
-----------

When new versions are added, the Versions.sql file must be updated with the language, country, version, version country and version store that must be applied to the new version.  This information is loaded into Versions.db and deployed using the RunVersions.sh

	./RunVersions.sh
	
	This script loads the Versions.sql script into Versions.db and copies the new Versions.db table to the YourBible app.
	
InstallVersions
---------------

Each App storefront has it own languages pre-installed in the App as is appropriate for that language.  The information about which versions are stored for each store is contained in the StoreVersion table.  This script copies the versions appropriate for a specific locale into the YourBible App.  It also generates a JavaScript file named SettingStorageInitSettings.js, which contains the correct settings to initialize the Settings database.

	./InstallVersions.sh LOCALE

